while everyone is expecting central
banks to cut rates something just
happened in Canada that's going to flip
that narrative on its head my name is
David going Theory and what I do here is
cut through all the BS and bring you
exactly what you need to know in today's
video we are going to talk about Canada
we are going to look at what's happening
in other countries including Australia
and I want to give you an insight as to
what the final solution is at the very
end of this video I'm going to cover
something extremely important but only
those with some actual patients will be
able to get that information here we go
first thing Bank of Canada raises policy
rate by 25 basis points and continues
their quantitative tightening policy
this is important because the
expectation was at this point in the
year they would already be cutting rates
or at least stopping with that they did
initially stop the expectation was hey
we're just going to continue this
process of like weaning off of that
whole tightening policy that isn't the
case this is what going on right now so
it is pretty close to where the Federal
Reserve is at at the same time though
household death is unimaginable
unimaginable in Canada you have people
that have taken out loans they can't pay
back the only way is that when it comes
time to renew their mortgage which in
Canada it works like every few years you
have to renew your mortgage but you pay
it over that 25 30 35 year
40-year time frame Yes you heard me
correctly and you get to renegotiate or
whatever but it what if that rate is
going to be higher in the next year
let's say because depending on when they
took that mortgage out initially a lot
of people 2020 they got a three-year
that's coming up right now or maybe they
took it on 2021 or maybe they got a five
year either way at some point they are
going to be paying a higher rate what if
they're invariable which uh depending on
where you look you know it could be 15
or higher 25 percent even of the total
public that are getting these mortgages
or getting them at variable rate they
are paying more already people are
paying just interest at this time and
that is a very big concern their debt is
never going to go down that is a problem
I talk about this further at the end of
this video uh where I will highlight the
video you got to watch after that to
teach you what you can do to make
changes with your variable interest rate
mortgage or maybe you got a friend or
family member who needs to know that
information so this is what's going on
right now in Canada they are paying too
much debt at the same time they have way
too much uh you know the payments are
basically too high in general borrowing
costs there's another aspect to this
this inflation hit the snag in Canada
closely watch measure of underlying
pressures reverses in April so you can
see that black line right there and
instead of it going down it went back up
and that doesn't mean that it can't
reverse the opposite direction but
they've been doing so much they've been
trying to uh saying you know we're gonna
bring inflation down we're going to take
care of this and yet they still can't
get it down
more data was released concerns mounting
that the pause was premature GDP
including household consumption grew by
more than expected in the first three
months of the year with momentum
continuing in the second quarter
Canada's labor market is steadily
cranking up more jobs than expected and
the unemployment rate remains near
record lows it's the same situation do
you recognize this if I said you know us
instead of Canada you wouldn't have
known the difference it's the same
circumstance because they all did the
same thing they all printed way too much
money and they all engage in these
quantitative easing programs most
importantly progress on inflation hit a
snag in April as the annual rate hit a
key three month moving average of
underlying core readings reversed course
all they're saying is that inflation
went up again okay you could measure
this with all these different fancy ways
it doesn't matter people are paying more
for their rent than they ever have in
history people are paying more for their
homes their energy their cars like every
free metric in reality like you and I
would use none of this pce and CPI all
that nonsense what I like to do is take
it officially uh when I go to buy
something what am I paying isn't that
isn't that the way you're supposed to
calculate inflation instead of these
crazy metrics that they use of course
not
because that wouldn't make it their job
easy right they didn't get it all fancy
inside those computers and they make
things uh
impossible for people to understand
that's the kind of the whole point so
basically housing prices are ridiculous
and at the same time
they're going through this in here
saying uh the very bottom paragraph it
says
the housing market just it you know it
hasn't stabilized it is actually on a
complete tear again something that the
Bank of Canada needs to take care of
what are they saying that you know
despite trying to bring housing prices
down these interest rates have not done
that and instead the you know like the
prices are surging surging and what's
China doing during this time as I've
said the same circumstances that they've
been going in this direction now for
well over a year China asks big Banks to
cut deposit rates to boost growth they
may cut their time deposit rates as soon
as this week move to stimulate consumer
spending boost credit Supply as I have
said China is doing a complete 180
degree from the rest of the world they
are loosening they are pumping they are
doing everything they can their real
estate sectors starting to decline you
could see the problems with these
companies they're going and trying to
get the landing going again this can't
actually be resolved in the way that
they would love it to and so they are
trying each and every way but I see a
major concern there obviously not going
to get away with that Japan's three
biggest banks said that they would raise
interest rates for housing loans next
month reflecting Bank of Japan's tweak
in its Ultra lose policy uh I think it's
ridiculous anyway Japan is uh gone it
will never be again they will not admit
their mistake and they're still trying
to keep their policy super loose uh the
banks though they're tightening slightly
so will that have any impact on the real
estate well we'll see in time but I just
want to show you that as well
Australia's economy cools as aggressive
uh rate hikes take a toll labor costs
Rose further last quarter amid inflation
challenge this sounds a lot like what's
going on in the United States as well
you're getting some of those economic
indicators coming back saying hey things
are cooler but interest rates uh
ultimately where will they be at in a
year from now that's really the question
that the market is trying to ask if they
think that rates will be lower in six
months they'll bite the bullet now even
if they lose some money on a real estate
investment or stock investment but if
they thought it was two years from now
well that would be different they would
be putting their money in different
places but they don't believe that and
that's really what the market is showing
us here and now that's Real Estate
Investors look if we take any real real
estate you know whether it's Australia
Canada United States wherever look let's
be honest about it a lot of them have
come off their highs San Francisco and
New York whatever
but think about it we're talking about
something that like multiplied like it
doubled over the period of two years so
if it came down 10 or 20 percent
you know it's really not that
significant in the grand scheme of
things those people who bought the
absolute Peak they get screwed over but
it's still completely unaffordable
that's the point and the whole issue
here is and I'm tired of beating around
the bush about it Buckley's commercial
you know that commercial oh it it's
awful but it works the guy takes the
medicine or you take the medicine it
tastes terrible but my goodness it works
that's the whole point of the marketing
and that's what we need we need that
awful medicine to make us better I
called it in my first book uh economic
detox because we have to shed ourselves
of this garbage of the money printing of
all the debts we have to get away with
that or else if we don't we end up right
here in the cycles that I've explained
over and over again when we go down into
the cycle everything follows with it
just think of like you know the wave or
something coming crashing down well we
can ride that wave down as a lot of 401k
investors do they ride the wave down it
sucks that's painful then we come back
up but instead we could be doing things
with our money during those time frames
I talked about it a hundred times when
we saw the the tanking the tanking that
took place in in 2020 everybody was
saying I know that the Market's going to
crash all of these people out there the
YouTubers would say yeah it's going to
crash but we don't know when it's going
to come back up so let's just dollar
cost average but you know it's going to
be worth less tomorrow and next week
until they were starting to you know how
do I say a properly uh without the
sensors getting me without those medical
interventions being done and that would
of course make the markets real happy so
why in the world would we put money into
that why wouldn't we have bought just
don't sell
temporarily just by ETFs that are there
to make money when the market goes down
okay like an inverse ETF we know that
and we could put little bits of money in
there so that as the market is falling
part of just part of our portfolio is
coming up because that will offset it
it's called risk parity it's pretty
simple this is something that I've
talked about over and over again and I
don't really care if those out there are
going to spout some garbage I'm here to
just give you what's real
and the reality is not very nice is it
is it
you tell me
look here
slow down threatens Indian economy even
as its Rich keep spending hey doesn't
that sound familiar growth is expected
to decelerate sharply this fiscal year
consumer demand is weakening among the
middle class and the poor a lot of that
actually is happening in other parts of
the West that I've noticed but you can
see it here India Central Bank is the
most bullish on the country's growth
prospects so we can compare for a lot of
these different companies and what they
have said well you know the Central Bank
obviously has to do well for their own
country I could understand that the
point is that
if we take it for what it is we need to
understand that India is going to have a
lot more growth than some of the
developed economies but it's still
something that is extremely difficult to
manage India you've got a population 1.4
billion how do you manage all that how
do you take care of that growth how do
you feed everybody like it's just it's
just extremely difficult and that's
really the challenge going forward not
just for now but for five years for 10
years India has great prospects but it's
a real big
real big difficulty that they have they
have a growing population which could be
beneficial but it'll also be a hindrance
right it's not just one way or the other
but they've got a lot of consumption
that's happening a lot more people are
moving from the rural into the cities uh
and they're manufacturing Logistics have
improved they have improved over the
years so there are opportunities for
investors in for India a lot of
businesses you can use India for
manufacturing if you're manufacturing
leather if you're manufacturing steel
textiles these are all things that India
is good at and they're getting better
with the logistics so exporting those
out maybe you're in the UK maybe you're
in Canada or the us or so on you can
take advantage of that okay now the uh
individuals who were smart enough to
stay until this part of the video you're
going to get some real good stuff coming
up in a minute here interest only loans
helped commercial property boom now they
are coming due landlords facing 1.5
trillion dollar bills with the virtual
mortgages over the next three years it
interest rates are going to punish
punish these companies and the investors
that are along with this so you gotta
follow the money here because we're
talking about what's happening with
individual investors we're looking at a
homeowners they're all getting hurt
right now and my goodness commercial
real estate is the worst by far the
worst possession stay clear of this this
is my warning to you stay clear of
anything to do with commercial property
until rates start getting cut at that
point then you do what you want but I'm
here to tell you watch out for
commercial real estate in any company
that's exposed to commercial real estate
okay struggling companies that got debt
lifelines are failing anyway and the
whole point of this article let me just
summarize it for you companies that were
struggling they get some money you know
help us help us because we're going to
do better we just need to fix it they
never do
they never do it's just like that
degenerate that goes and gambles and he
says look okay okay I made a mistake I
shouldn't have gambled look just just
help me out I'm gonna be okay and then
what does he do he just gambles it away
again or he throws it over here and is
lost you cannot fix what's broken in
this case here you have to wipe it out
economic detox let it go and start from
scratch that's the only way you can't
put a bandage over a gunshot wound
because you're not going to be saved so
let me tell you that
that's what's going on right now in this
exact same thing with countries that's
the reason I bring this up and we're
dealing with that today what's happening
with the money we follow the money and
we see Singapore getting massive uh
deposits in their Banks right now
because those probably most um investors
being in Asia they're looking for a safe
place to park their money Singapore
Banks that's where the money's going all
right and then we have this Universal
basic income to be trialed in England
they're going to get sixteen hundred
pounds a month for two years sign me up
I'd like to take that sixteen hundred
pounds that's a lot of money okay
and this is the solution to the whole
circumstance we're going to pay
everybody money for doing nothing and we
are going to encounter much more
inflation the inflation is going to get
so hot and that's why you got to deal
with these circumstances yourself the
government is going this direction
they're going to put you on a universal
basic income they're going to force feed
you the Central Bank digital currency
and you're going to be stuck you have to
get around this I'm telling you right
now this is the ultimate solution that
they have desired and they are going
towards it you see how the economies are
weakening globally they're increasing
interest rates borrowing costs are real
real difficult for a lot of people but
what do you do as the individual look
those people let's just say Bezos or
what have you this guy was able to take
out loans on his stock in Amazon at 0.69
percent you could have done something
similar to that if you had uh
interactive brokers as your uh your
brokerage for stocks people always ask
me what The Brokerage of Choice
interactive brokers I'm not affiliated
but I do use them and basically they're
when they were given what was it maybe
about a percent so you could borrow I
wouldn't suggest it but you could borrow
it at one percent from your portfolio so
you're going to be borrowing a one
percent what can you do with that you
can make an infinite amount of money
when you're borrowing at one percent so
these people they had years and years
and years to get all that money to
borrow what they needed to take
advantage of that and now they increase
rates they can kind of sit back and
watch and wait for interest rates to go
back down again they're all good they
have more than enough time but you the
individual you're trying to keep up with
it you can't that's the difference the
richest of the rich get to take
advantage not Bezos he's you know only
on the Forbes 500 those are like the the
you know low level uh rich people but
the point here is that we have to watch
out we have to understand that rates are
likely not at this time not done
um but where we can see them in the next
six months or so so that's a different
story I want to keep a close eye on this
every single day I bring you the latest
and greatest information this video
right here is what you got to do if you
have a variable mortgage or know
somebody that does hit that thumbs up on
the way out of here okay I really
appreciate that click this video and
I'll catch you over there